Stranger Things is an American science fiction-horror web television series created, written, directed and co-executive produced by the Duffer Brothers, as well as co-executive produced by Shawn Levy and Dan Cohen. The first season, released in July 2016, stars Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Finn Wolfhard, Millie Bobby Brown, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, Natalia Dyer, Charlie Heaton, Cara Buono and Matthew Modine, with Noah Schnapp and Joe Keery in recurring roles. For the second season, Schnapp and Keery were promoted to series regulars, along with the additions of Sadie Sink, Dacre Montgomery, Sean Astin and Paul Reiser.
Set in the fictional town of Hawkins, Indiana in the 1980s, the first season focuses on the investigation into the disappearance of a young boy amid supernatural events occurring around the town including the appearance of a girl with psychokinetic abilities who helps the missing boy's friends in their own search. The second season, titled Stranger Things 2, is set a year after the first, and deals with attempts of the characters to return to normal and consequences that linger from the first season.
The Duffer Brothers developed the series as a mix of investigative drama alongside supernatural elements with childlike sensibilities, establishing its time frame in the 1980s and creating a homage to pop culture of that decade. Several themes and directorial aspects were inspired and aesthetically informed by the works of Steven Spielberg, John Carpenter, and Stephen King, among others.
The first season was released on Netflix on July 15, 2016. It received critical acclaim for its characterization, pacing, atmosphere, acting, soundtrack, directing, writing, and homages to 1980s genre films. The series has received several industry nominations and awards, including winning the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2016, and receiving eighteen nominations for the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Drama Series. On August 31, 2016, Netflix renewed the series for a second season of nine episodes, which was released on October 27, 2017. The Duffer Brothers have confirmed that the series will continue with a third season, pursuing a desire to conclude Stranger Things with a fourth or fifth season.
Premise
Stranger Things is set in the fictional rural town of Hawkins, Indiana, during the early 1980s. The nearby Hawkins National Laboratory ostensibly performs scientific research for the United States Department of Energy, but secretly does experiments into the paranormal and supernatural, including those that involve human test subjects. Inadvertently, they have created a portal to an alternate dimension called "the Upside Down". The influence of the Upside Down starts to affect the unknowing residents of Hawkins in calamitous ways.[1][2]
The first season begins in November 1983, when Will Byers is abducted by a creature from the Upside Down. His mother, Joyce, and the town's police chief, Jim Hopper, search for Will. At the same time, a young psychokinetic girl called Eleven escapes from the laboratory and assists Will's friends, Mike, Dustin, and Lucas, in their own efforts to find Will.[3] The second season is set a year later, starting in October 1984. Will had been rescued, but few know of the details of the events. When Will is found to be still influenced by entities from the Upside Down, his friends and family learn there is a larger threat to their universe from the Upside Down.
Main
Winona Ryder as Joyce Byers,[11] the mother of Will and Jonathan Byers. She is divorced from Lonnie Byers.
David Harbour as Jim Hopper,[11] chief of Hawkins Police Department. After his young daughter died of cancer, Hopper got divorced and lapsed into alcoholism.
Finn Wolfhard as Mike Wheeler,[12] son of Karen and Ted, younger brother of Nancy, and one of three friends of Will Byers. He is an intelligent and conscientious student and is committed to his friends. He falls in love with Eleven.
Millie Bobby Brown[12] as Eleven ("El"), a young girl with psychokinetic abilities, an unusual appearance, and a limited vocabulary. She is actually Jane Ives, the biological daughter of Terry Ives. After escaping from Hawkins Laboratory, where experiments were being performed on her, she befriends Mike, Dustin, and Lucas. She falls in love with Mike.
Gaten Matarazzo as Dustin Henderson,[12] one of Will's friends. His cleidocranial dysplasia causes him to lisp. In the second season, he is proud of his new front teeth and is attracted to Max.
Caleb McLaughlin as Lucas Sinclair,[12] one of Will's friends. He is wary of Eleven but later befriends her. In season two, he is one of Max's love interests.
Natalia Dyer as Nancy Wheeler,[12] daughter of Karen and Ted and older sister of Mike. In season one, she is Steve Harrington's girlfriend. In season two, she becomes Jonathan Byers's girlfriend.
Charlie Heaton as Jonathan Byers,[12] the older brother of Will Byers and the son of Joyce Byers. He is a quiet teenager, an outsider at school, and an aspiring photographer. He is close with his mother and brother, and he becomes the boyfriend of Nancy Wheeler.
Cara Buono as Karen Wheeler,[13] mother of teenaged Nancy, middle schooler Mike, and toddler Holly.
Matthew Modine as Martin Brenner,[14] the scientist in charge of Hawkins Laboratory. He is manipulative and remote. He and his team are searching for Eleven.
Noah Schnapp as Will Byers,[12] the younger brother of Jonathan Byers and the son of Joyce Byers. He is captured by a monster from the "Upside Down", an alternate dimension discovered by Hawkins Laboratory scientists.[15] Schnapp was promoted to series regular for the second season, after recurring in the first.[16]
Sadie Sink as Maxine "Max" Mayfield / "Madmax", Billy's younger stepsister, and a tomboy who catches the attention of both Lucas and Dustin.[16]
Joe Keery as Steve Harrington, a popular high school student and the boyfriend of Nancy Wheeler. He ostracizes Jonathan Byers. He begins as Nancy's boyfriend but breaks up with her in season two.[17] Keery was promoted to series regular for the second season, after recurring in the first.[16]
Dacre Montgomery as Billy Hargrove, Max's violent and unpredictable older stepbrother. He challenges Steve's popularity.[16]
Sean Astin as Bob Newby, a former schoolmate of Joyce and Hopper. In season two, he runs the Hawkins RadioShack[18] and is Joyce's boyfriend, putting him at odds with Hopper.[9]
Paul Reiser as Sam Owens, a Department of Energy executive. He replaces Brenner as director of Hawkins Laboratory. He is stubborn and committed to scientific research, yet empathetic to the residents of Hawkins.[18]