The Flash is an American superhero television series developed by Greg Berlanti, Andrew Kreisberg, and Geoff Johns, airing on The CW. It is based on the DC Comics character Barry Allen / Flash, a costumed superhero crime-fighter with the power to move at superhuman speeds. It is a spin-off from Arrow, existing in the same fictional universe. The series follows Allen, portrayed by Grant Gustin, a crime scene investigator who gains super-human speed, which he uses to fight criminals, including others who have also gained superhuman abilities.
Initially envisioned as a backdoor pilot, the positive reception Gustin received during two appearances as Barry on Arrow led to executives choosing to develop a full pilot to make use of a larger budget and help flesh out Barry's world in more detail. Colleen Atwood, costume designer for Arrow, was brought in to design the Flash's suit. The creative team wanted to make sure that the Flash would resemble his comic book counterpart, and not simply be a poor imitation. The series is primarily filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
The Flash premiered in North America on October 7, 2014, where the pilot became the second-most watched premiere in the history of The CW, after The Vampire Diaries in 2009. It has been well received by critics and audiences, and won the People's Choice Award for "Favorite New TV Drama" in 2014. The series, together with Arrow, has spun characters out to their own show, Legends of Tomorrow, which premiered on January 21, 2016. On January 8, 2017, The CW renewed the show for a fourth season,[1] which premiered on October 10, 2017.[2]
After witnessing his mother's supernatural murder, Barry Allen is taken in by Detective Joe West and his family. Barry becomes a brilliant but socially awkward crime scene investigator for the Central City Police Department. A particle accelerator malfunctions, bathing the city center with a radiation during a thunderstorm, and Barry is struck by lightning. Awakening after a coma, he discovers he can move at superhuman speeds. Harrison Wells, the accelerator's designer, describes Barry's nature as "metahuman". Barry vows to use his gifts to protect Central City. As the Flash, Barry also pursues his mother's murderer, the Reverse-Flash.[3]
In the second season, after a singularity event, the Flash is recognized as Central City's hero. However, the event brings a new threat from a parallel earth: Zoom, a demonic speedster who seeks to eliminate all speedsters throughout the multiverse. Harrison Wells' parallel universe counterpart nicknamed "Harry", and his daughter Jesse, work to help Barry stop Zoom and explore the multiverse. Joe and his daughter, Iris, struggle with the arrival of Iris's brother Wally West. After Zoom kills Barry's father, Barry travels back in time to save his mother's life.
By changing his past, Barry alters the timeline, resulting in "Flashpoint". Though he is somewhat able to restore the timeline, this creates new threats, including Savitar. After Harry and Jesse return to Earth-2, another Wells doppelgänger is recruited: the novelist "H.R." Wells. Both Wally and Caitlin Snow begin to manifest metahuman abilities; Wally suits up as the speedster Kid Flash, while Caitlin is forced to suppress her ice-powers to prevent becoming Killer Frost. When Barry accidentally travels to the future and sees Iris killed by Savitar, he is desperate to change the future to prevent that from happening. After saving Iris and defeating Savitar, Barry takes his place in the Speed Force.
Cast and characters
Main articles: List of The Flash characters and List of Arrowverse actors
Grant Gustin as Barry Allen / Flash:
A Central City assistant police forensic investigator. Moments after an explosion at the S.T.A.R. Labs particle accelerator, Barry is struck by lightning in his laboratory and doused by chemicals affected by the accident. When he awakens from a nine-month coma, he has superhuman speed.[7] In September 2013, Grant Gustin was cast in the titular role.[7] Andy Mientus, who would eventually be cast as Hartley Rathaway, also auditioned for the role.[8] Gustin began researching the character during the audition process, and reading as many comics as possible. Gustin primarily focused on The New 52 series of comics, because he knew it would be difficult to read everything and he felt the New 52 was the closest to the show's "look and feel".[9]
Candice Patton as Iris West: The daughter of Detective West and Barry Allen's fiancée.[10] She works at Central City Picture News as a journalist.[11]
Danielle Panabaker as Dr. Caitlin Snow / Killer Frost:[12]
A highly intelligent bioengineering expert, Caitlin believed her fiancé, Ronnie Raymond,[12] was killed during the particle accelerator explosion at S.T.A.R. Labs,[13] until he returned part way through first season. Ronnie and Caitlin get married in the first season finale, "Fast Enough".[14]
Rick Cosnett as Eddie Thawne: A recent transfer to the Central City Police Department, Eddie's past is a mystery and he harbored a dark secret.[13] He was partner to Detective Joe West and Iris West's love interest. Cosnett left the series after the first season, following his character's sacrifice to wipe Eobard Thawne, his distant descendant, from history.[14]
Carlos Valdes as Cisco Ramon / Vibe: A mechanical engineering genius, Cisco is the youngest member of the team of scientists at S.T.A.R. Labs and a metahuman.[15]
Tom Cavanagh as Harrison Wells:
The mind and money behind Central City's S.T.A.R. Labs Particle Accelerator, Wells becomes a pariah after the lab explodes.[16] Mentoring Barry to get faster, he is eventually revealed to be the Reverse-Flash, Eobard Thawne (Matt Letscher), a descendant of Eddie from the future with a grudge against the Flash. Thawne killed the real Wells and stole his identity.[17] In subsequent seasons, Cavanagh portrays various alternate reality doppelgängers of Wells. These include the sarcastic but brilliant "Harry", who along with his daughter Jesse hails from Earth-2, and his Earth-19 counterpart, the sci-fi novelist "H.R.".
Jesse L. Martin as Joe West: A police detective who acts as a surrogate father to Barry, after his mother's death and father's imprisonment, and who is the father of Iris[3][18] and Wally.[19]
Keiynan Lonsdale as Wally West / Kid Flash:
The son of Joe and brother of Iris, born without their knowledge after his mother left Central City.[19] The producers disliked the introduction of relatives of characters that were never previously mentioned, feeling it was "weird", and opted instead to introduce Wally as unknown even to his relatives. They also chose to make him Iris' brother, a departure from the comics where he was her nephew.[19] Speaking on Lonsdale's casting, Kreisberg explained that "Just like when we met Grant [Gustin] for the first time, we instantly knew Keiynan embodied all the heart and courage of a hero."[20] After Flashpoint, Wally eventually gets speed powers from Doctor Alchemy and becomes Kid Flash.[21]
Neil Sandilands as Clifford Devoe / Thinker: A metahuman with a genius-level intellect, who looks to fix all that he deems wrong with humanity.[22]